vvfaq.txt

     FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT Virtual Vanessa PROGRAM

        Virtual Vanessa TRS-80 Model 100 "LIMITED" Emulator

Updated:  September 6, 1998

This file is kept and udpated by kwd@plbm.com.  Please email me with
any questions or clarifications that you feel are necessary. 
Remember that this software has only been tested on a handful of
different Model 100/102 computers, and as such is provided "as-is." 
BE SURE TO BACK UP YOUR DATA BEFORE LOADING ANY OF THE *.DEC FILES
INCLUDED INTO YOUR MODEL 100/102!!!

Q.    What is VV?
A.    VV stands for Virtual Vanessa.  While this might sound
      "naughty," it is simply nothing more than the name for the
      emulator based on the fact that I named my Model 100 "Vanessa"
      back in 1984 when I bought it.  After 10 full years of
      faithful service, I find it difficult to change "her" name
      just because it sounds sort of dirty.

Q.    What can VV do for me?
A.    VV is an emulator environment that allows you to run certain
      Model 100/102 software on the IBM PC.  The currently supported
      software is a suite of arcade/action games that I wrote for
      the Model 100 during high school.  I wanted to keep the games
      alive, so I wrote this emulator to keep them playable, even if
      Vanessa was to suddenly stop working some day (perish the
      thought).

Q.    What are VV's main limitations?
A.    VV does not support any of the application programs available
      from the Model 100/102, such as BASIC, TEXT, TELCOM, ADDRSS,
      or SCHEDL.  The main purpose of VV is to run my game software,
      and therefore I did not fully support everything necessary for
      full ROM operation.

Q.    Do I need a Model 100/102 to enjoy VV?
A.    No.  The VV program enables you to run certain Model 100/102
      software on an IBM PC.  A recommended minimum system is a
      386SX/25.  Any slower system typically will not be able to
      give realistic throughput.

Q.    Can Model 100 programs work on my Model 102 as well?
A.    Yes.  All the Model 102s that I have tested function
      IDENTICALLY to the Model 100, as far as I know.  Test it out
      yourself, but just be sure to save all your important data
      beforehand!

Q.    What do each of the different files do for me?
A.    Here is a breakdown of each of the files:

      VVFAQ.TXT   This document - updated whenever appropriate
      VV.ZIP      The Virtual Vanessa emulator system itself. 
                  Includes:
            VV.EXE      The Virtual Vanessa emulator IBM PC
                        executable.
            FTU.BAS     File Transfer Utility.  Enables you to
                        transfer binary files from your IBM PC to
                        the Model 100 (over the serial RS-232
                        connector; see below.).
            M100ROM.DAT An image of the TRS-80 Model 100 ROM,
                        necessary for complete system emulation. 
                        This data may also be acquired by dumping
                        the contents of the 32k ROM to a file on
                        your IBM PC, so nobody's copyright is being
                        violated here.  :)
            *.DEC       The binary "image" files that VV and the
                        Model 100/102 can execute.  These are in
                        text-editable format.  Keep reading
                        below...
            *.CTF       Color Template Files:  used to simulate
                        "software" cellophane on VV, giving "pseudo
                        color" to otherwise monochromatic games.
            *.TXT       Files that give information about different
                        parts of the system.  Each game typically
                        has its own *.TXT file to explain how to
                        play it (okay, SOME games have a .TXT
                        file!)

Q.    What are *.DEC files?
A.    *.DEC files are my own format, and are text-editable lines
      containing the object (machine) code for a particular *.CO
      file that would run in your actual Model 100/102 computer,
      along with a checksum number to ensure accurate transmission. 
      The FTU.BAS program runs in your Model 100/102, and "digests"
      the stream of the *.DEC file and "pokes" it into memory so
      that it can be executed on your Model 100/102.

Q.    What us the DUMP.DEC/DUMP.CO file?
A.    All the games that I wrote require my special screen driver to
      access the bizarre and nonstandard LCD video circuitry of the
      Model 100/102.  DUMP.CO is a program that loads at 62750 in
      your Model 100/102, and is called directly by my game software
      when it wishes to redraw the screen.  You can almost think of
      it as a TSR that must be present.  IF YOU RUN ONE OF MY GAMES
      BEFORE LOADING DUMP.CO, YOU ARE ASKING FOR A TOTAL SYSTEM
      CRASH!!!!  Most games will print some sort of warning if they
      don't find the electronic "signature" for DUMP.CO.

Q.    What keys are typically used by most games?
A.    Most games use the A and Z keys to move Up/Down, and the K and
      L keys to move Left/Right.  These keys are aliased to the PC
      cursor keys under Virtual Vanessa, BUT NOT ON THE MODEL
      100/102!  Firing your weapon is usually the <Space> bar, and
      some games use <Enter> or <Tab> for additional features. 
      Refer to the *.TXT file for each game for more information
      about that game.

Q.    How can I transfer programs from my PC to my Model 100/102?
A.    You will need a serial port on your PC, a serial cable, and a
      null modem.  Use a regular terminal program (such as Procomm
      Plus) to copy the FTU.BAS program from the PC down to the
      Model 100/102.  This program will be the "receiving" end for
      binary data transfers between the PC and the Model 100/102. 
      Run the FTU.BAS program on the Model 100/102 and answer the
      questions, and then run the VV software on your PC and select
      the "Xfer Files" option when the cursor is on the desired
      program.  Any problems will be reported.

Q:    A lot of these programs don't seem to work.  What's up with
      that?
A:    I no longer work on the TRS-80 Model 100 since Vanessa has
      died (may she rest in peace).  Therefore all the .DEC files
      (i.e., .CO files) that I had saved up I simply uploaded as
      part of this archive for your pleasure.  Some work, some don't
      do much.  There are a few useful utilities you might enjoy,
      such as FMT and FORM, which are print formatting utilities I
      wrote (although there is no documentation available anymore),
      and also DOCSZ, which will tell you the sizes of all document
      files in your Model 100.

Remember to register any shareware that you feel is worth your
money!

Email all questions to kwd@plbm.com.  I sincerely hope that you
enjoy this software and find it worthwhile.
