https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/cbd56/comment/c0rf319/

Posted by [deleted] in 2010:

This is how a lot of compression algorithms work, in fact. You've got
two basic components:

    The basic duplication elimination using a constant-sized window,
which is the LZSS algorithm (and which is a slightly tweaked variant
of the original LZ77, which nobody really uses). The only real
variation here is the size of the window. Deflate's 32k is pretty
small these days.

    Then, some form or other of entropy coding which translates the
stream of literal bytes, lengths and offsets produced by LZSS into a
byte stream. Using Huffman coding has been popular here, and there are
many further tricks one can apply beyond what Deflate does (keeping
lists of common lengths or offsets, various ways to make the lists of
lengths more compact, and so on). Lately, arithmetic or range coding
is becoming more popular, as it is more efficient and easier to tweak
in various ways, and also trivial to make adaptive (so that the
compressor can adjust itself depending on the data sent, without
having to stop and re-transmit parameters).

Some examples:

    Deflate, used in Zip, Gzip, PNG and many other places, is as we
    know LZSS with a small window + basic Huffman coding.

    The older LZH had several modes, but the best was a small-window
    LZSS with Huffman coding, very much like deflate.

    RAR is LZSS with a big window + more elaborate Huffman coding,
    with an optional PPMd encoding mode (which is an entirely
    different kind of compression algorithm which tries to build
    models of the data sent to predict the probabilities of future
    characters, instead of eliminating duplicate strings). It can also
    preprocess the data so it compresses better.

    LZMA is LZSS with a huge window + adaptive range coding (and some
    extra cleverness).

Compressors that are not LZSS-based include:

    bzip2, which uses a somewhat mind-bending algorithm called the
    Burrows-Wheeler Transform followed by some other simple
    transformations, and then Huffman coding.

    Old .Z compress, which used LZW, which is a tweaked version of
    LZ78, the second of the two original compresison algorithms (the
    other being LZ77). LZW is seldom used with any kind of clever
    entropy coding, and just stores bit strings directly.

    [Very old .z "pack", which used straight Huffman coding and had
    relatively poor compression. --b9]
    

